Content image - Phnom Penh Post
Fresh chilli. Photo supplied
The government’s policy to boost productivity performance in the agricultural sector has lit a fire under the Kingdom’s exports, with shipments of fresh chilli flaring up 27.08 per cent from 55,513 tonnes in 2019 to 70,546 tonnes in a spicy 2020, according to Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Veng Sakhon.

Battambang provincial Department of Agriculture director Chhim Vachira told The Post on January 7 that during this time last year, vegetable cultivation area in the province – chilli and otherwise – had exceeded 1,000ha, eclipsing the target by over 150 per cent.

He chalked up the increase in arable land to the government’s policy to strengthen and spice up the potential of agricultural products, while ensuring that their prices would be more encouraging than in 2019.

He said Battambang’s chilli cultivation area is set to expand in almost every district.

“In 2021, the price of chilli will be much higher than last year’s levels, and the market won’t hit any snags either. Provincial authorities will time and again egg farmers on to ramp up their crop production in a more consistent manner and in line with market demand.

“At the same time, we’ll also encourage them to incorporate training geared towards commercialisation and agricultural contracts into their farming concept,” Vachira said.

He boasted that chilli cultivation would also outstrip last year’s levels. “This is an example of agricultural product diversification aimed at boosting more exports,” he said.

As of last year’s end, there were 96 agricultural communities on a contract farming basis with companies or other buyers, according to Vachira.

Battambang provincial Department of Commerce director Kim Hout said that while 2020 fresh chilli yields in the province did not increase much over 2019, exports across the border to Thailand were more than 32,000 tonnes.

Hout said these accounted for more than 45 per cent of the Kingdom’s total exports, pointing to numbers from the agriculture ministry as reference.